# Data files & helpers

The JSON files in this directory are local copies of etsy lookup data that can be
retrieved via api calls. Some of the files are 1:1 with a single etsy api call
but others are the result of making many api calls and accumulating the results into
a single file, eliminating duplicative data, etc. This makes the data files small
enough to be reasonably loaded into memory on a browser.

The data files themselves are each accessed via a helper of the same name. So,
for example, PROPERTY_SETS.json is only ready by propertySets.js which exposes helper
functions to anyone else wishing to access this data.

Some of the JSON files are assembled by using an appropriately named "Fetcher",
others are hand generated (see below for details);

## Lookup data

The files PROPERTIES.json, QUALIFIERS.json, and QUALIFIER_OPTIONS.json are all
lists of values keyed by IDs. Once a value is ascertained via other logic, these
files are used to fill in the data. All of these files were created by hand by calling the
property_sets api endpoint and passing no parameters. Then, the resulting data was
split among these files as appropriate.

1.  **PROPERTIES.json** This file lists all of the top-level properties for a variation (e.g. Height, Color, Flavor).

2. **QUALIFIERS.json** These are all the qualifiers that can be applied to variation (both scale and recipient) types. These are the qualifier types, not the values (e.g. Size, Flavor, Recipient);

3. **QUALIFIER_OPTIONS.json** These are the values that can be applied to a qualifier-- the scale and recipient types (e.g. Centimeters for the Height qualifier or Men for the recipient qualifier);

## Data relationships

1. **qualifierOptions.js** This is an enhanced version of QUALIFIER_OPTIONS.json. It was hand created because there's
no good way to extract this data directly from Etsy. This has data about known prefixes &
suffixes for qualifier options, mappings of recipient enums to recipient IDs, etc.

2. **PROPERTY_SETS.json** When configuring a variation, you pick a taxonomyId and a property and that determines what, if any, scale or recipient quailfiers are available
to you. This file is the tree structure that allows you to traverse those options. This
file was generated by calling the etsy api for all known taxonomy IDs and combining the
results. (see propertySetFetcher.js for how this is done).  

3. **SUGGESTED_OPTIONS.json** Once a variation is fully qualified, it may have suggested
options pre-populated. This file lets you look up lists of suggested options given the
fully specified variation configuration. 
